# ASSESSMENT 5: INTRO TO RAILS
## Interview Practice Questions

Answer the following questions. First, without external resources. Challenge yourself to answer from memory. Then, research the question to expand on your answer. Even if you feel you have answered the question completely on your own there is always something more to learn.

1. MVC (Model View Controller) is a pattern for the architecture of a software program. Give a brief description of each component and describe how Ruby on Rails handles MVC.

  Your answer: Model is a representation of data. View is what the user is able to see as the data is presented. Controller is what sends requests for information to the model which is what will be viewable. Ruby on Rails has all of these different components. Each of these are specific files within specific folders and interact with one another through specific pathways. The models use active record in order to interact with the database but are representations of date themselves. The controller contains all the different methods that a user and use and will render the views

  Researched answer: Model:The central component of the pattern. It is the application's dynamic data structure, independent of the user interface. It directly manages the data, logic and rules of the application. View: Any representation of information such as a chart, diagram or table. Multiple views of the same information are possible, such as a bar chart for management and a tabular view for accountants. Controller: Accepts input and converts it to commands for the model or view. In addition to dividing the application into these components, the model–view–controller design defines the interactions between them. The model is responsible for managing the data of the application. It receives user input from the controller. The view means presentation of the model in a particular format. The controller responds to the user input and performs interactions on the data model objects. The controller receives the input, optionally validates it and then passes the input to the model. Rails has these files within the public folder where through routing the response goes to the controller which can communicate with the view and the model to retrieve and present data.



2. Using the information given, fill in the blanks to complete the steps for creating a new view in a Rails application.

  Step 1: Create the __route_______ in the file config/routes
  ```
  get '/about' => 'statics#about'
  ```

  Step 2: Create the ____controller________ in the file ___app/controller__________
  ```
  class __StaticsController__________ < ApplicationController
    def ___about________
      render: ____about.html.erb____________
    end
  end
  ```

  Step 3: Create the View in the file ___app/views/statics___________
  code:
  ```
  <div>This is the About page!</div>
  ```


3. Consider the Rails routes below. Describe the responsibility of  each route. Which routes must always be passed params and why?

```
/users/       method="GET"     # :controller => 'users', :action => 'index'
/users/1      method="GET"     # :controller => 'users', :action => 'show'
/users/new    method="GET"     # :controller => 'users', :action => 'new'
/users/       method="POST"    # :controller => 'users', :action => 'create'
/users/1/edit method="GET"     # :controller => 'users', :action => 'edit'
/users/1      method="PUT"     # :controller => 'users', :action => 'update'
/users/1      method="DELETE"  # :controller => 'users', :action => 'destroy'
```
The GET methods will read you existing data. The POST will create a new instance. The PUT will update you existing data. The DELETE will destroy you existing data. Anything that contains users/1 will need a param because it is looking for a specific id to call the method on. 




4. What is the public folder used for in Rails?

  Your answer:?

  Researched answer: In many MVC frameworks (e.g. Rails), the public folder is used to serve static files. So for example, you often see 404.html, 500.html and favicon.ico files in there when creating the project through the "usual" means provided by such frameworks. These are "dumb" files that don't interact w/the backend. The assumption is that these don't require a context generated by your controllers to render them; for example the 404.html might just express that nothing exists at this URL, where the URL is something that isn't matched by the framework's routing system.


5. Write a rails route for a controller called "main" and a page called "game" that takes in a parameter called "guess"
get '/game/:guess' => 'main#game'


6. What are cookies? What is the difference between a session and a cookie?

  Your answer: Cookies are information that is stored on the browser.

  Researched answer: A session creates a file in a temporary directory on the server where registered session variables and their values are stored. This data will be available to all pages on the site during that visit. A session ends when the user closes the browser or after leaving the site, the server will terminate the session after a predetermined period of time, commonly 30 minutes duration. Cookies are text files stored on the client computer and they are kept of use tracking purpose. Server script sends a set of cookies to the browser. For example name, age, or identification number etc. The browser stores this information on a local machine for future use. When next time browser sends any request to web server then it sends those cookies information to the server and server uses that information to identify the user.



7. In an html form, what does the "action" attribute tell you about the form? How do you designate the HTTP verb for the form?

  Your answer: The action tells you where that action is being placed on. The HTTP verb is designated in the method attribute

  Researched answer: The purpose of the HTML action attribute is to specify the URL of a form processor. The HTTP verb is designated in the method attribute



8. Name two rails generator commands and what files they create:

  Your answer: rails generate migration make a migration file for the db. rails generate model will make the migration file and it will make the model

  Researched answer: rails generate resource will make a route that contains all the possible routes for HTTP methods. rail generate rspec:install will make rspec helper files in order to fun rspec


9. Rails has a great community and lots of free tutorials to help you learn. Choose one of these resources and look through the material for 10-15 min. List three new things you learned about Rails:
- [Ruby on Rails Tutorial](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/ruby-on-rails/index.htm)
- [Rails for Zombies](http://railsforzombies.org)
- [Rails Guides](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html)

1. In the ArticlesController we need to have a way to block access to the various actions if the person is not authenticated. Here we can use the Rails http_basic_authenticate_with method, which allows access to the requested action if that method allows it.

2. If you delete an article, its associated comments will also need to be deleted, otherwise they would simply occupy space in the database. Rails allows you to use the dependent option of an association to achieve this. 

3. To list everything that belongs to a column in a database, the route for this as per output of rails routes is: articles GET    /articles(.:format)          articles#index
